Trial Number	Title	Description	Condition	Disease Subtype	Drug CNTO #	Drug Name	Descriptive Clinical Trial Name	Study Owner	Biomarker Data Owner	Study Phase	Blinding Procedure	Study Type	Duration of Study	Number of Patients	Number of Sites	Route of Administration	Dosing Regimen	Group Assignment	Type of Control	Study Design	Completion Date	Primary Endpoints	Secondary Endpoints	Inclusion Criteria	Exclusion Criteria	Subjects	Gender Restriction	Min. Age	Max Age	Secondary Ids	PI	Development Partner	GEO Platform	Main Findings	Platform Name	Accession (Internal study_id)	Area
Multiple Myeloma_Mulligan_GSE9782	Gene expression profiling and correlation with outcome in clinical trials of the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib	The aims of this study were to assess the feasibility of prospective pharmacogenomics research in multicenter international clinical trials of bortezomib in multiple myeloma and to develop predictive classifiers of response and survival with bortezomib. 	Multiple Myeloma	Relapsed	N/A	Bortezomib		George Mulligan	N/A	Phase 2/3	N/A	Pharmacogenomics	1 year	528	Multicenter	Intravenous	Bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 or high-dose Dexamethasone	N/A	Active comparison	Randomized	20071206	To develop predictive classifiers of response and survival with bortezomib	N/A	Patients with myeloma who had relapsed or refractory disease	N/A	"Patients with relapsed myeloma enrolled in phase 2 and phase 3 clinical trials of bortezomib and consented to genomic analyses of pretreatment tumor samples. Bone marrow aspirates were subject to a negative-selection procedure to enrich for tumor cells, and these samples were used for gene expression profiling using DNA microarrays."	Both	N/A	N/A	GSE9782	George Mulligan	N/A	GPL96; GPL97	Gene expression in this dataset was consistent with data published from a single-center study of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. Response and survival classifiers were developed and shown to be significantly associated with outcome via testing on independent data. The survival classifier improved on the risk stratification provided by the International Staging System. Predictive models and biologic correlates of response show some specificity for bortezomib rather than dexamethasone. Informative gene expression data and genomic classifiers that predict clinical outcome can be derived from prospective clinical trials of new anticancer agents.	Affymetrix Human Genome U133A Array; Affymetrix Human Genome U133B Array	GSE9782	Oncology
Breast Cancer_Desmedt_GSE7390	Strong Time Dependence of the 76-Gene Prognostic Signature	"A 76-gene prognostic signature able to predict distant metastases in lymph node-negative (N-) breast cancer patients was reported. The aims of this study conducted by TRANSBIG were to independently validate these results and to compare the outcome with clinical risk assessment. Materials and Methods: Gene expression profiling of frozen samples from 198 N- systemically untreated patients was performed at the Bordet Institute, blinded to clinical data and independent of Veridex. Genomic risk was defined by Veridex, blinded to clinical data. Survival analyses, done by an independent statistician, were performed with the genomic risk and adjusted for the clinical risk, defined by Adjuvant!Online. Results: The actual 5- and 10-year time to distant metastasis (TDM) were 98% (88%-100%) and 94% (83%-98%) respectively for the good profile group and 76% (68%- 82%) and 73% (65%-79%) for the poor profile group. The actual 5- and 10-year overall survival (OS) were 98% (88%-100%) and 87% (73%-94%) respectively for the good profile group and 84% (77%-89%) and 72% (63%-78%) for the poor profile group. A strong time-dependency of this signature was observed, leading to an adjusted HR of 13.58 (1.85-99.63) and 8.20 (1.10-60.90) at 5 years, and 5.11 (1.57-16.67) and 2.55 (1.07-6.10) at 10 years for TDM and OS respectively. Conclusion: This independent validation confirmed the performance of the 76-gene signature and adds to the growing evidence that gene expression signatures are of clinical relevance, especially for identifying patients at high risk of early distant metastases."	Breast Cancer	Lymph node-negative (N-)	N/A	N/A		Yixin Wang	N/A	Clinical	N/A	Biomarker Prognostic Gene Signature	18 years	198	6	N/A	N/A	N/A	None	Prospective	20070711	"To validate the 76-gene signature developed in GSE2034 using the same approach and patients series, but an independent laboratory. In addition, given the long follow-up period (median, 14 years) in this study, the prognostic value of this 76-gene signature over time was investigated."	N/A	Patients with breast cancer	Patients with previous malignancies (except basal cell carcinoma) and bilateral synchronous breast tumors were excluded.	"This validation study was carried out with frozen archival tumor materials from breast cancer patients previously described by the TRANSBIG consortium. Briefly, these patients were younger than the age of 61 years (median age, 47 years) and had node-negative, T1-T2 (V5 cm) tumors. Patients in this series had been seen at six centers: Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France (IGR); Karolinska Institute, Stockholm and Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden (KI); Centre Rene´ Huguenin, Saint-Cloud, France (CRH); Guy’s Hospital, London, United Kingdom (GH); and John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, United Kingdom (JRH). The corresponding paraffinembedded tumor samples of these patients were sent to the Department of Pathology at the European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy, where ER status (using immunohistochemistry) and histologic grade (using the Elston and Ellis method) were determined by the same pathologist, blinded to the clinical and genomic data. The clinical centers were also visited by two independent auditors who carried out source data verification of all data in the validation series."	Female	N/A	61	GSE7390	Yixin Wang	N/A	GPL96	"TRANSBIG, a network for translational research established by the Breast International Group (BIG), conducted a validation study of the 70-gene signature and showed reproducible prognostic value in a series of 302 patients from five different centers and across different statistical facilities (GSE2034). In the present study, the validation results of the 76-gene signature using the same approach and patient series, but an independent laboratory are reported. In addition, given the long follow-up period (median, 14 years) in this study, the prognostic value of this 76-gene signature over time is investigated. The actual 5-year  and 10-year time to distant metastasis were 98% (88-100%) and 94% (83-98%), respectively, for the good profile group and 76% (68-82%) and 73% (65-79%), respectively, for the poor profile group. The actual 5-and 10-year overall survival were 98% (88-100%) and 87% (73-94%), respectively, for the good profile group and 84% (77-89%) and 72% (63-78%), respectively, for the poor profile group. We observed a strong time dependence of this signature, leading to an adjusted hazard ratio of 13.58 (1.85-99.63) and 8.20 (1.10- 60.90) at 5 years and 5.11 (1.57-16.67) and 2.55 (1.07- 6.10) at 10 years for time to distant metastasis and overall survival, respectively."	Affymetrix Human Genome U133A Array	GSE7390	Oncology
Breast_Cancer_Hatzis_GSE25066	Genomic predictor of response and survival following neoadjuvant taxane-anthracycline chemotherapy in breast cancer	"To develop a predictive test for response and survival following neoadjuvant taxane-anthracycline chemotherapy for HER2-negative invasive breast cancer.METHODS: We developed a microarray-based gene expression test from pre-treatment tumor biopsies (310 patients) to predict favorable outcome based on estrogen receptor (ER) status,pathologic response to chemotherapy, 3-year disease outcomes, and sensitivity to endocrine therapy. Tumors were classified as treatment-sensitive if predicted to have pathologic response (and not resistance) to chemotherapy, or sensitive to endocrine therapy. We tested predictive accuracy, with 95% confidence interval (CI), for pathologic response (PPV, positive predictive value), distant relapse-free survival (DRFS), and absolute risk reduction at median follow-up in 198 other patients. Independence from clinical-pathologic factors was assessed in a multivariate Cox regression analysis based on the likelihood ratio test. Other evaluable, published response predictors (genomic grade index (GGI), intrinsic subtype (PAM50), pCR predictor (DLDA30)) were compared."	Breast Cancer	HER2-negative	N/A	"Taxane, Anthracycline"		Christos Hatzis	N/A	Clinical	N/A	Biomarker Treatment Predictive Gene Signature	3 years	508	Multicenter	N/A	N/A	N/A	None	Prospective	20110511	To develop a predictive test for response and survival following neoadjuvant taxane-anthracycline chemotherapy for HER2-negative invasive breast cancer.	N/A	Patients with newly diagnosed ERBB2 (HER2 or HER2/neu)–negative breast cancer.	N/A	Patients were those with newly diagnosed ERBB2 (HER2 or HER2/neu)–negative breast cancer treated with chemotherapy containing sequential taxane and anthracycline–based regimens (then endocrine therapy if estrogen receptor [ER]–positive).	Female	N/A	N/A	GSE25066	Christos Hatzis	N/A	GPL96	"A genomic predictor combining ER status, predicted chemoresistance, predicted chemosensitivity, and predicted endocrine sensitivity identified patients with high probability of survival following taxane and anthracycline chemotherapy."	Affymetrix Human Genome U133A Array	GSE25066	Oncology
Rheumatoid Arthritis_Takeuchi_GSE20690	"Efficacy of anti-TNF biologic agent, infliximab, for RA patients using transcriptome analysis of white blood cells"	"Introduction of biologics, such as infliximab, to the therapy of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients has revolutionized the treatment of this disease. However, biomarkers for predicting the efficacy of the drug at an early phase of treatment for selecting real responders have not been found. We here present predictive markers based on a thorough transcriptome analysis of white blood cells from RA patients. RNA from whole blood cells of consecutive 42 patients before the first infusion was analyzed with microarrays for training studies. Samples from the subsequent 26 consecutive patients were used for a prospective study. We categorized the results into no inflammation and residual inflammation groups using the serum C-reactive protein (CRP) level at 14 weeks after the first infusion. The accuracy of prediction in our study was 65.4%."	Rheumatoid Arthritis	N/A	N/A	Infliximab		Tsutomu Takeuchi	N/A	Clinical	N/A	Biomarker Treatment Predictive Gene Signature	14 weeks	68	1	Intravenous	N/A	N/A	None	Prospective	20100309	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A	"Forty-two and 26 consecutive RA patients followed at Saitama Medical Center, for retrospective and verification studies, respectively, who were resistant to standard MTX treatment, were enrolled. The serum CRP level was used for the definition of the level of inflammation of each patient, 0.3 mg/dl or less as “no inflammation” (NI), and more than 0.3 mg/dl as “residual inflammation” (RI) at 14 weeks after the first treatment with infliximab infusion. Differentially expressed genes between the NI and RI patients in the retrospective/training set were extracted, and these genes were verified using the verification set."	Both	N/A	N/A	GSE20690	Tsutomu Takeuchi	N/A	GPL4133	RNA from whole blood cells of consecutive 42 patients before the first infusion was analyzed with microarrays for training studies. Samples from the subsequent 26 consecutive patients were used for a prospective study. We categorized the results into no inflammation and residual inflammation groups using the serum C-reactive protein (CRP) level at 14weeks after the first infusion. The accuracy of prediction in our study was 65.4%.	Agilent-014850 Whole Human Genome Microarray 4x44K G4112F (Feature Number version)	GSE20690	Immunology
Rheumatoid Arthritis_Bienkowska_GSE15258	Whole blood transcript profiling of rheumatoid arthritis patients	The whole blood was collected pre-treatment from rheumatoid arthritis patients starting the anti_TNF therapy. All patients were naïve to anti_TNFs. The disease activity was measured using the DAS28 score at the pre-treatment visit1 (DAS28_v1) and 14 weeks after treatment visit3 (DAS28_v3). The response to the therapy was evaluated using the EULAR [European League Against Rheumatism] definition of the response. The objective of the data analysis was to identify gene expression coorelating with response as well as to identify genes that differentiate responders versus non-responders pre-treatment. The results of this investigation identified 8 trainscripts that predict responders vs. non-responders with 89% accuracy.	Rheumatoid Arthritis	N/A	N/A	Anti-TNF		Biogen Idec	N/A	N/A	N/A	Biomarker Treatment Predictive Gene Signature	14 Weeks	86	0	N/A	N/A	N/A	None	Prospective	20090317	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A	"ABCoN data set: Patients with active disease fulfilling the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria and previously naïve to anti-TNF agents were enrolled in our study. 116 patients beginning anti-TNF therapies (54 etaneracept, 25 adalimumab, 37 infliximab) were consented for this study. Inclusion criteria were: 18 years of age or older, meeting the 1987 ACR criteria, disease activity of at least 6 swollen joints, no previous exposure to anti- TNF medication for a six month duration. Exclusion criteria for our study were those patients who take10 mg or more oral steroid therapy per day at the time of enrollment in this study. Clinical information required for evaluating response to therapy was also recorded for each patient at each study visit. Written informed consent was obtained from all subjects.BRASS longitudinal study data sets: Patients with active disease fulfilling the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria and previously naïve to anti-TNF agents were enrolled in our study. 30 patients were enrolled in the study and evaluated after 12 weeks of treatment by anti-TNF therapy. For 17 patients clinical response data at week 12 was available. 10 of those patients were responders, 5 were moderate responders and 2 non-responders. Molecular data was available for 9 responders and 2 responders."	Both	N/A	N/A	GSE15258	Jadwiga Bienkowska	N/A	GPL570	"Patients' response to anti-TNF was assessed using EULAR score and patients were classified as responders, moderate responders and non-responders. Genes correlating with the response status have been identified."	Affymetrix Human Genome U133 Plus 2.0 Array	GSE15258	Immunology
Multiple Sclerosis_Gurevich_GSE15245	Prediction of acute multiple sclerosis relapses by transcription levels of peripheral blood cells	"In the current study the objective was to determine if subsets of genes can predict the time to the next acute relapse in patients with MS. Data-mining and predictive modeling tools were utilized to analyze a gene-expression dataset of 94 non-treated patients; 62 patients with definite MS and 32 patients with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS). The dataset included the expression levels of 10,594 genes and annotated sequences corresponding to 22,215 gene-transcripts that appear in the microarray. "	Multiple Sclerosis	Clinically Isolated Syndrome	N/A	N/A		Michael Gurevich	N/A	N/A	N/A	Biomarker Gene Identification	N/A	94	1	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A	20090715	N/A	N/A	Patients with MS or CIS	N/A	62 non-treated patients with definite MS and 32 non-treatedpatients with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS)	Both	N/A	N/A	GSE15245	Michael Gurevich	N/A	GPL96; GPL571	We conclude that gene expression analysis is a valuable tool that can be used in clinical practice to predict future MS disease activity. Similar approach can be also useful for dealing with other autoimmune diseases that characterized by relapsing-remitting nature	Affymetrix Human Genome U133A Array; Affymetrix Human Genome U133A 2.0 Array	GSE15245	Immunology; Neuroscience
Inflammatory Bowel Disease_Burczynski_GSE3365	Comparison of PBMCs in Inflammatory Bowel Disease	"Comparison of PBMC transcriptional profiles in healthy subjects, patients with Crohn's Disease, and patients with Ulcerative Colitis."	Crohn's Disease; Ulcerative Colitis	N/A	N/A	N/A		Wyeth	N/A	N/A	N/A	Biomarker Gene Identification	N/A	127	3	N/A	N/A	N/A	Normal	N/A	20050926	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A	"North American and European clinical sites from a total of 42 apparently healthy individuals, 59 CD patients, and 26 UC patients participating in three distinct clinical trials (two CD and one UC trial). CD patients had CD activity index scores (CDAI) ranging between 220 and 400 with an abdominal pain rating of _25 and/or a diarrhea rating of _25. Diagnosis of CD for at least 6 months was confirmed by radiological studies, endoscopy with histological examination, or surgical pathology; patients with a diagnosis of CD were included if the diagnosis was confirmed by a biopsy. UC patients had scores from the Physician’s Global Assessment of the Mayo Ulcerative Colitis Scoring System ranging from mild to moderate (scores of 1 or 2). The diagnosis of left-sided UC was provided by endoscopy with biopsy, in addition to standard clinical criteria."	Both	N/A	N/A	GSE3365	Michael Burczynski	N/A	GPL96	"Ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn’s disease (CD) are common inflammatory bowel diseases producing intestinal inflammation and tissue damage. Although emerging evidence suggests these diseases are distinct, _10% of patients remain classified as indeterminate inflammatory bowel disease even after invasive colonoscopy intended for diagnosis. A molecular diagnostic assay using a clinically accessible tissue would greatly assist in the classification of these diseases. In the present study we assessed transcriptional profiles in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 42 healthy individuals, 59 CD patients, and 26 UC patients by hybridization to microarrays interrogating more than 22,000 sequences. Supervised analysis identified a set of 12 genes that distinguished UC and CD patient samples with high accuracy. The alterations in transcript levels observed by microarray were verified by real-time polymerase chain reaction. The results suggest that a peripheral blood mononuclear cell-based gene expression signature can provide a molecular biomarker that can complement the standard dia-gnosis of UC and CD."	Affymetrix Human Genome U133A Array	GSE3365	Immunology
Inflammatory Bowel Disease_Arijs_GSE16879	Mucosal expression profiling in patients with inflammatory bowel disease before and after first infliximab treatment	"Mucosal biopsies were obtained at endoscopy in actively inflamed mucosa from 61 IBD patients (24 ulcerative colitis (UC), 19 Crohn’s colitis (CDc) and 18 Crohn’s ileitis (CDi)), refractory to corticosteroids and/or immunosuppression, before and 4-6 weeks after (except for 1 CDc patient) their first infliximab infusion and in normal mucosa from 12 control patients (6 colon and 6 ileum). The patients were classified for response to infliximab based on endoscopic and histologic findings at 4-6 weeks after first infliximab treatment. Total RNA was isolated from intestinal mucosal biopsies, labelled and hybridized to Affymetrix Human Genome U133 Plus 2.0 Arrays."	Crohn's Disease; Ulcerative Colitis	Crohn’s Colitis; Crohn’s Ileitis	N/A	Infliximab		University Hospital Gasthuisberg	N/A	N/A	Endoscopist - not blind; Pathologist - blind	Biomarker Gene Identification	4-6 Weeks	73	1	Intravenous	"5 mg infliximab per kg body weight, single infusion or a loading dose at weeks 0, 2 and 6"	N/A	Normal Untreated	N/A	20090629	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A	"Sixty-one patients with active IBD (24 UC, 19 CDc and 18 CDi), refractory to corticosteroids and/or immunosuppression, and a control group of 12 individuals (6 colon and 6 ileum) who underwent endoscopy for screening for polyps were studied. The patients underwent endoscopy with biopsies from diseased bowel (colon for UC and CDc, and ileum for CDi) within a week prior to the first intravenous infusion of 5 mg infliximab per kg body weight. They underwent a second endoscopy with biopsies 4 weeks after the first infliximab infusion in case of a single infusion and at 6 weeks if they received a loading dose of infliximab at weeks 0, 2 and 6. The biopsies were taken at sites of active inflammation but at a distance of ulcerations. In the case of healing at control endoscopy, the biopsies were obtained in the areas where lesions were present before therapy. The endoscopist was not blinded to treatment. Half of the biopsies were immediately snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at _80°C until RNA isolation and/or immunohistochemistry, except for the biopsies from 1 CDc patient after infliximab treatment which were of poor technical quality. The residual biopsies were fixed in Carnoy's fixative for up to 5 hours and then dehydrated, cleared and paraffin-embedded for histologic examination. The features of chronic intestinal inflammation were scored in haematoxylin-eosin stained slides from the paraffin blocks of each patient using a previously reported scoring system for UC and for CD. The pathologists who scored the biopsies (KG and GDH) were blinded to treatment."	Both	N/A	N/A	GSE16879	Ingrid Arijs	N/A	GPL570	We used microarrays to identify mucosal gene signatures predictive of response to infliximab (IFX) in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and to gain more insight into the pathogenesis of IBD.	Affymetrix Human Genome U133 Plus 2.0 Array	GSE16879	Immunology
Lupus Nephritis_Berthier_GSE32591	Expression data from human with lupus nephritis (LN)	"Nephritis (LN) is a serious manifestation of SLE. Therapeutic studies in mouse LN models do not always predict outcomes of human therapeutic trials, raising concerns about the human relevance of these models. In this study we used an unbiased transcriptional network approach to define similarities and differences between three lupus models and human LN. Affymetrix-based expression profiles were analyzed using Genomatix Bibliosphere software and transcriptional networks were compared using the Tool for Approximate LargE graph matching (TALE). The 20 network hubs (nodes) shared between all three models and human LN reflect key pathologic processes, namely immune cell infiltration/activation, macrophage/dendritic cell activation, endothelial cell activation/injury and tissue remodeling/fibrosis. Each model also shares unique features with human LN. Pathway analysis of the TALE nodes highlighted macrophage/DC activation as a cross-species shared feature. To distinguish which genes and activation pathways might derive from mononuclear phagocytes in the human kidneys the gene expression profile of isolated NZB/W renal mononuclear cells was compared with human LN kidney profiles. Network analysis of the shared signature highlighted NFkappaB1 and PPARgamma as major hubs in the tubulointerstitial and glomerular networks respectively. Key nodes in the renal macrophage inflammatory response form the basis for further mechanistic and therapeutic studies.We used microarrays to analyze the transcriptome of microdissected renal biopsies from patients with lupus nephritis (LN)"	Lupus Nephritis	N/A	N/A	N/A		University of Michigan	N/A	N/A	N/A	Biomarker Gene Identification	N/A	47	2	N/A	N/A	N/A	Normal	N/A	20111004	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A	"Human renal biopsies were collected after informed consent was obtained, according to the guidelines of the respective local ethics committees. A total of 47 samples from the European Renal cDNA Bank (ERCB) was processed and used for microarray analysis: pretransplant healthy living donors (LDs) (n = 15) and LN patients (n = 32). For real-time PCR, 11 LD and 9 LN samples were used from an independent cohort (of the ERCB). There was no statistical difference in any parameters between the LN cohorts used in arrays and RT-PCR."	Both	N/A	N/A	GSE32591	Celine C Berthier	N/A	GPL14663	"Lupus nephritis (LN) is a serious manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus. Therapeutic studies in mouse LN models do not always predict outcomes of human therapeutic trials, raising concerns about the human relevance of these preclinical models. In this study, we used an unbiased transcriptional network approach to define, in molecular terms, similarities and differences among three lupus models and human LN. Genome-wide gene-expression networks were generated using natural language processing and automated promoter analysis and compared across species via suboptimal graph matching. The three murine models and human LN share both common and unique features. The 20 commonly shared network nodes reflect the key pathologic processes of immune cell infiltration/activation, endothelial cell activation/injury, and tissue remodeling/fibrosis, with macrophage/dendritic cell activation as a dominant cross-species shared transcriptional pathway. The unique nodes reflect differences in numbers and types of infiltrating cells and degree of remodeling among the three mouse strains. To define mononuclear phagocyte-derived pathways in human LN, gene sets activated in isolated NZB/W renal mononuclear cells were compared with human LN kidney profiles. A tissue compartment-specific macrophage-activation pattern was seen, with NF-_B1 and PPAR_ as major regulatory nodes in the tubulointerstitial and glomerular networks, respectively. Our study defines which pathologic processes in murine models of LN recapitulate the key transcriptional processes active in human LN and suggests that there are functional differences between mononuclear phagocytes infiltrating different renal microenvironments."	Affymetrix GeneChip Human Genome HG-U133A Custom CDF [Affy_HGU133A_CDF_ENTREZG_10]	GSE32591	Immunology
Lupus Nephritis_Berthier_GSE32583	"Expression data from lupus NZB/W, NZM2410, NZW/BXSB mouse kidneys prenephritic and nephritic."	"Nephritis (LN) is a serious manifestation of SLE. Therapeutic studies in mouse LN models do not always predict outcomes of human therapeutic trials, raising concerns about the human relevance of these models. In this study we used an unbiased transcriptional network approach to define similarities and differences between three lupus models and human LN. Affymetrix-based expression profiles were analyzed using Genomatix Bibliosphere software and transcriptional networks were compared using the Tool for Approximate LargE graph matching (TALE). The 20 network hubs (nodes) shared between all three models and human LN reflect key pathologic processes, namely immune cell infiltration/activation, macrophage/dendritic cell activation, endothelial cell activation/injury and tissue remodeling/fibrosis. Each model also shares unique features with human LN. Pathway analysis of the TALE nodes highlighted macrophage/DC activation as a cross-species shared feature. To distinguish which genes and activation pathways might derive from mononuclear phagocytes in the human kidneys the gene expression profile of isolated NZB/W renal mononuclear cells was compared with human LN kidney profiles. Network analysis of the shared signature highlighted NFkappaB1 and PPARgamma as major hubs in the tubulointerstitial and glomerular networks respectively. Key nodes in the renal macrophage inflammatory response form the basis for further mechanistic and therapeutic studies.We used microarrays to analyze the renal transcriptome of three different lupus mouse models, at early stage of lupus and during lupus nephritis."	Lupus Nephritis	N/A	N/A	N/A		University of Michigan	N/A	N/A	N/A	Biomarker Gene Identification	N/A	57	3	N/A	N/A	N/A	Normal	N/A	20111003	N/A	N/A	N/A	N/A	"NZB/W F1 mice were purchased from The Jackson Laboratory (Bar Harbor, ME), NZM2410 mice were purchased from Taconic (Hudson, NY), and NZW/BXSB F1 male mice were bred in our facility from the respective parents (The Jackson Laboratory). All mice were housed in a specific pathogen-free facility with 12-h light/dark cycles and unlimited access to food and water. All animal experiments were approved by the Institute Animal Care and Use Committee of the Feinstein Institute. The NZB/W F1 strain included groups of the following ages: 16 wk old (control group without any serum autoantibodies, immune complex deposition, or proteinuria, n = 8), 23 wk old (prenephritic control group, with serum autoantibodies, minimal immune complex deposition, and proteinuria <100 mg/dl, n = 11), 23 wk old (with abundant immune complex deposition and new onset of proteinuria >300 mg/dl, n = 6), and 36 wk old (with established proteinuria >300 mg/dl for >2 wk, n = 10). NZM2410 mice were 7 wk old (control group without autoantibodies, renal immune complex deposition, or proteinuria, n = 5) and 22–30 wk old (with proteinuria >300 mg/dl for 7–10 d, n = 5). Mice of this strain were harvested 7–10 d after proteinuria onset, because most NZM2410 mice die within 14 d of proteinuria onset. NZW/BXSB mice were 8 wk old (control group, without serum autoantibodies or proteinuria n = 4), 17 wk old (prenephritic control group, with serum autoantibodies, proteinuria <= 100 mg/dl, and histologic glomerular score <= 2, n = 6), and 18–21 wk old (with >7-d proteinuria >300 mg/dl and histologic glomerular score >2, n = 6)."		N/A	N/A	GSE32583	Celine C Berthier	N/A	GPL7546	"Lupus nephritis (LN) is a serious manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus. Therapeutic studies in mouse LN models do not always predict outcomes of human therapeutic trials, raising concerns about the human relevance of these preclinical models. In this study, we used an unbiased transcriptional network approach to define, in molecular terms, similarities and differences among three lupus models and human LN. Genome-wide gene-expression networks were generated using natural language processing and automated promoter analysis and compared across species via suboptimal graph matching. The three murine models and human LN share both common and unique features. The 20 commonly shared network nodes reflect the key pathologic processes of immune cell infiltration/activation, endothelial cell activation/injury, and tissue remodeling/fibrosis, with macrophage/dendritic cell activation as a dominant cross-species shared transcriptional pathway. The unique nodes reflect differences in numbers and types of infiltrating cells and degree of remodeling among the three mouse strains. To define mononuclear phagocyte-derived pathways in human LN, gene sets activated in isolated NZB/W renal mononuclear cells were compared with human LN kidney profiles. A tissue compartment-specific macrophage-activation pattern was seen, with NF-_B1 and PPAR_ as major regulatory nodes in the tubulointerstitial and glomerular networks, respectively. Our study defines which pathologic processes in murine models of LN recapitulate the key transcriptional processes active in human LN and suggests that there are functional differences between mononuclear phagocytes infiltrating different renal microenvironments."	Affymetrix GeneChip Mouse Genome 430 2.0 Array [CDF: Mm_ENTREZG_10]	GSE32583	Immunology